By the end of the last video,
our data was processed and our model was specified.
Currently, all of the 600,000 or so
weights have random values and so the model has random predictions.
By training the model,
we'll modify these weights and improve the predictions.
But before training the model,
we'll need to specify a loss function.
Since we're constructing a multiclass classifier,
we'll use categorical cross-entropy loss.
This loss function checks to see if our model has done a good job with
classifying an image by comparing the models prediction to the true label.
Remember that the true labels are one-hot
encoded and each label is a vector with 10 entries.
The model outputs a vector also with 10 entries.
Say the model returns this prediction for instance,
here it predicts that there's an eight in the image with
90% probability and the three in the image with 10% probability.
In fact, you can also think of the label vector in terms of probabilities.
It knows that there's a 100% probability that the image depicts a three.
The categorical cross-entropy loss looks at these two vectors
and returns a lower value if the two vectors agree regarding what's in the image.
In this case, the model is pretty sure that the digit is an eight,
but the label knows for certain it's a three.
Thus, will return a higher value for the loss.
If the model later returns this output,
where it changes to being 90% sure that the image depicts a three,
the categorical cross-entropy loss will be lower.
So to summarize, we've seen that if the models predictions agree with the label,
the loss is lower.
And this is what we want in a good model.
We want its predictions to agree with the label.
We'll try to find the model parameters that
give us predictions that minimize the loss function.
In the previous lesson,
you were encouraged to think of
the loss function as a surface that resembles a mountain range.
Then to minimize this function,
we need only find a way to descend to the lowest valley.
The standard method for descending a loss function is called gradient descent.
You've been introduced to a number of ways to perform
gradient descent and each method in Keras has a corresponding optimizer.
The surface depicted here is an example of a loss function
and all of the optimizers are racing towards the minimum of the function.
As you can see, some do better than others and so
you are encouraged to experiment with all of them in your code.
In this lesson, the examples will always use RMSProp as an optimizer.
When we compile the function,
we'll specify the loss function and optimizer.
By adding this additional parameter with accuracy as a metric,
we'll be able to check how the accuracy of our model changes during the training process.
Once we've compiled the model,
we can check to see what kind of accuracy it
already has on the test set before we train it.
We don't expect it to perform better than random chance,
which in this case would correspond to an accuracy of one in 10 or 10%.
And yup, we get around 13% accuracy.
We'll train it to perform much better in the next lesson.